# Feminist Digital Pedagogy
This is an archive of the course material, including syllabus, course notes, and students' input. DHUM 7400 Spring 2025 was offered at the Graduate Center, CUNY as a course in the M.A. in Digital Humnanitities and cross-listed in the M.A in Women's and Gender Studies. This archive was created to embody feminist citation, minimal computing, and share knowledge creation with other pedegogues interested in feminist digital pedagogy. Student names have been redacted. Student initials will be used to 
## Rational

As I delve into the field of digital humanities, I realize, there is more humanities than digital in DH. The aim is to use humanities theories and methodologies to investigate, create, and critique digital technology in our world. The question seems to be, how does x ( application/ website/ OER /etc) benefit/ impact/ limit/ expand our experiences/ minds/ lives? In this course I found the minimum computing unit very helpful to think critically about using digital tools in a classroom and about adding to our digital footprint in general. Succinctly and effectively, Risam and Gil in “Introduction: The Questions of Minimal Computing” advise us to ask these questions wheen deciding on creating or developing a digital project:1) “what do we need?”; 2) “what do we have”; 3) “what must we prioritize?”; and 4) “what are we willing to give up?” Like any technology, digital technologies are useful when they achieve the humanities goals. In our case, intersectional feminist goals: equity and critique of systems of power. 

I have a post-it note on my laptop that says:”[feminist] pedagogy---intentional & explicit; peer to peer support”. The post-it does not explicitly say feminist because as a self-note, for me it is implied that the pedagogy I want to practice is feminist. Intersectional feminism and standpoint feminism both work to critique systems of power and devise collaborative methods to empower the marginalized. The objective of feminist pedagogy, for me at least, is to create equitable learning environments for both students and facilitators. In that vein, as an adjunct lecturer in CUNY, teaching first year composition, I find it necessary to support the precarious workers in an urban commuter minority serving institute.

In Teaching to Transgress hooks writes: “It is crucial that critical thinkers who want to change our teaching practices talk to one another, collaborate in a discussion that crosses boundaries and creates a space for intervention.”(129) Although this archive project on Github does not allow for real time discussions, it supports hooks ethos to create  spaces for knowledge creations and future work in feminist digital pedagogy. Initially, the plan for the archive was to recreate the course notes in addition to adding the course syllabus in an alternative to Google doc tool called CryptPad. However, thinking about accessibility and sustainability, I decided to use Github. CryptPad is new to me and possibly to many others and that may hinder users' willingness to browse the material or in the case there is a technical issue, there is not a large online community that may assist in the troubleshooting. A Github repository would enable access to a larger audience because even non coders are able to read the pages without the need to know code. Data can be structured in folders and files, similar to the structure of a computer data system that most pedagogues are familiar with. 

Having decided on the tool, there were many considerations to address. Since this would be my first time creating a repository and the effort is to document a community, I was able to create a sample Github repository with the initial Readme file and bring my questions to the community. Some of the questions I had after browsing the course site and course notes were: 
How do I make student contributions anonymous to protect their privacy as we have discussed in the course?
What do we as a community want to keep in our course notes and not make public on a Github repository?
What are the most important features of our course that we want to preserve?
Along with these questions, I also had to decide on editorial choices and the best data modeling would support both accessibility and ease of usability. 

After the first iteration of a Readme only file and realizing the misconception that one long file would be helpful. I was given the advice to create folders for each of our units and focus on big questions, ideas, projects, links, and suggested resources. I took this advice and created three folders titled for each of the course units. Each folder has the designated number of folders to indicate the topic for the specific week. Each week then has four files in it for: Course Notes, Readings, Projects, and Suggested Resources. Putting on a user lens, I found that this would allow my users to locate material easily. 

It is important to address why I am focused on ease of usability here. My goal for this project is to circulate it initially on The CUNY circuit then potentially let it out in the vast universe of the internet. As stated earlier, I find as pedagogues there is a focus to create material for our students, but we forget we are learners and require support and material to grow as learners and in turn educators. ZM in [Week 4](https://github.com/tsahlan/Feminist-Digital-Pedagogy/blob/main/Unit%201%3A%20Theories/Week%204%3A%20Feminist%20and%20Queer%20Praxis/Course%20Notes.md) said something remarkable: Curiosity is modeled. And so the objectives for this project are users of the Github archive titled “Feminist-Digital-Pedagogy” will be able to:
Review feminist digital pedagogy scholarship and projects 
Recreate a feminist digital pedagogy syllabus from the material provided in the repository.
The aim is to get them curious and dive into the material. 

Another reason to use Github and to create an archive that focuses on readings, discussions, and projects is to avoid the bells and whistles that can distract from the objectives of the project and that may limit accessibility both for assistive tools or for limited access reasons. Github allows users to enhance accessibility features in the settings. Some features include keyboard short cuts and motion speed for gifs. Although there are no explicit features for a specific challenge, I did take into account when creating the folders and files that it is 3- clicks in which means Unit-Lesson-File. Another feature of Github that I used to address accessibility is following the hierarchical order of headings. As I understand, screen readers use these to help listeners understand the break up of the text. Another  feature is the simple black text on white background text that is the default for Github documents. As for limited internet access, Github can be accessed with low internet access and since the repository is hosted on the web, users can read the files on any device that has an internet browser. In terms of accessibility for neurodivergence, I would need to do more research on the impact or difficulty that the Github interface may have on a neurodivergent person. 

This project is currently a proof of concept. I am both learning a technical skill by creating a repository on my own and honing methodological skills by creating a feminist archive that highlights the knowledge sharing, attributes the community accurately, and preserves the communities privacy.  
